hello everyone and thanks for watching
movie spoiler alerts we're gonna be
spoiling Back to the Future Part three
the final installment of the series the
movie opens were the previous film left
off with Marty being in the year 1955
having just discovered that doc is stuck
in the year 1885 Marty finds the 1955
version of doc and together they find
the DeLorean the one that was sent back
to the year 1885 and repair it while
doing so they discovered Doc's tombstone
from 1885 sitting that he died six days
after he wrote the letter to Marty being
killed by Buford Mad Dog Tannen
no this is bifs great-grandfather Doc's
tombstone states that he was killed over
a matter of $80 I know this part is a
bit confusing but I'll do my best to
keep it clear just to go over it again
the 1985 doc was sent back to the year
1885 where the DeLorean was damaged
trapping him there doc in the year 1885
writes Marty a letter and has it post
dated to arrive at a very specific time
and place in the year 1955 Marty
receives the letter and after finding
out that doc his trap and the location
of the DeLorean which Marty can use to
time-travel himself Marty go is to find
the 1955 version of Doc which remember
is 30 years younger than the doc who got
sent back to the year 1885 the younger
doc and Marty worked together to repair
the DeLorean and that's when they
discovered that the older doc the one
who was sent to the year 1885 was
murdered just a few days later so Marty
takes the repaired DeLorean back to the
year 1885 to intervene with the older
Doc's murder a bit confusing but I
promise the rest of the movie is much
more linear Marty arrives in the year
1885 a few days before Doc's murder to
find hill valley has a very old West
feel to it when Marty arrives he is
right in the middle of a Native American
attack and the DeLorean gets damaged
causing it to leak fuel making it unable
to accelerate to 88 miles
per hour the speed needed for time
travel so Marty and Doc devised an
alternative plan to have a train push
the car up to the necessary speed of 88
miles per hour while working on the
train plan doc and Marty see a woman on
a horse-drawn wagon that is traveling
out of control doc saves the woman who
is the town's schoolteacher named Clara
Clara and doc end up falling in love
eventually but it takes some time
because doc is concerned what she will
think or do about him being a man from
the future
Marty also meets his Irish relatives
that he has descended from they look
exactly like him on the whole they add
very little to the story
Marty doc Clara and Marty's family all
go into the town's festival where after
a series of events Marty yet again gets
into a fight with a Tannen this time
being Mad Dog Tannen the man who is
supposed to kill doc the sheriff breaks
up their fight so Mad Dog decides to
postpone the duel Marty and Mad Dog end
up having their duel which Marty wins
Mad Dog ends up in a pile of manure and
is arrested for an earlier robbery I
didn't go into a great deal of detail in
my other summaries of these movies about
this but there are many repeating motifs
between the different versions of these
characters such as Marty waking up to
his mother
Biff getting arrested and or landing and
manure Marty getting angry and being
called chicken and many many many others
really they aren't that important to the
story but it's an interesting element
that they carry throughout the films
after defeating Mad Dog
Marty doc and Clara begin the train plan
following a series of events only Marty
takes off in the DeLorean to the year
1985 leaving doc and Clara in the year
1885 the DeLorean is destroyed when it
arrives however Marty returns to his
girlfriend Jennifer who mind you has
been unconscious since the second film
who is now starting to wake up
Marty and Jennifer go back to the
wreckage of the DeLorean when Doc
appears in a train that has been fitted
with a flux capacitor making it a
locomotive time machine doc is
accompanied by Clara among with their
two children
the film ends with doc and his family
taking off in the locomotive which flies
away and into another time well that was
the summary for the last and final Back
to the Future movie if you haven't
checked out the other parts please look
at my other summaries if you have a
movie that you'd like me to spoil please
let me know in the comments and please
remember to Like and subscribe thanks
for watching